you know that classic sitcom moment
where like there's like the tough guy
and he's trying to say I'm sorry and
he's like
I'm
um you know like that moment like I was
that guy I would like the idea of
apology was absolutely something that I
was never going to do unless it was like
one of the most hardcore cases and I
remember a therapist that we were seeing
was like oh no like apologies should be
all the time like Sam sorry like
literally I'm I'm sorry that you didn't
understand what I was saying to you like
I was like wait but that's not my
fault and she's like what does Fault
have to do with an apology and I
remember like what the what like I
remember that and where what how it
finally landed with me was that I
thought apologies were just something
that was there to make you feel ashamed
right cuz as a kid what I got taught was
say you're sorry right it was it wasn't
like there was an authentic apology
coming out of my system it was you're
supposed to say you're sorry whenever
you do something that I don't like like
basically you it's like that's someplace
you should be ashamed so you should say
sorry and so I had to learn all over
again especially in fights I had to
learn how to apologize in an upright way
not in a shame way because at this point
in my journey I realized that like
anytime I felt shame it was a stagnant
emotion right which is why fights
stagnate the shame is keeping that
pattern in place over and over again and
so I was like I'm not doing shame and
for me to realize like oh there's such a
thing as a shame-free apology and I
think yeah I think we have a podcast on
shame free apologies if you ever want to
listen to it because it you can go deep
on this but the idea is that when you do
an apology it's an upright apology
meaning you're not making yourself small
you're not making yourself ashamed and
you're doing it in such a way that
you're saying oh this is genuinely what
I don't want to do I don't want to treat
I don't want to yell at you like this I
don't want to guiltrip you I don't want
to threaten you or whatever it's like
and so I'm very sorry for doing that
that's not how I want to be with you
that is what instead of like I'm yeah
I'm sorry that I I did that thing and I
I won't do it again like that's like a
very demeaning thing and it also is
going to make it's going to be shameful
and so you're going to repeat it
whenever I see apology like that I'm
like that behavior is happening again
right and you see it all the time like
in the abusive relationships I'm sorry
it wasn't me I'm not going to do it like
they feel so ashamed you know that
shit's going to happen
again and the reverse of the apology is
really cool too was that if you make an
upright apology and you say hey I'm
sorry for doing this this isn't how I
want to be with you it reduces the
chances of that behavior happening again
it's an amazing thing it's like one of
the the most powerful tools I know for
changing behavior is to apologize in an
upright way for the behavior that you've
done so apologies are this great way to
heal from a fight it's a great way to
say this behavior isn't going to happen
as much or at all
anymore but it's also a a great way to
respect somebody else to say like hey I
respect you enough to say and to hold
myself into account without shame now
there's another kind of apology that
there's a lot lot of therapists that
really like this we experimented with it
for a while Tara and I I do like it we
don't use it as much anymore but it was
really useful for a while which is the
apology of hey I'm I'm sorry that you're
feeling disconnected right now or I'm
sorry that you've had a hard day or I'm
sorry and it's not a sorry like I'm
responsible sorry but it's saying hey I
acknowledge you're having a bad day it's
not what I want for you hey the car
[__] went [__] and I'm sorry that's
not what I want for you like it's just
saying hey I'm I'm right here with you
and it's such a sweet thing to do it's
like such a sweetness of saying like I
acknowledge that that kind of sucked and
I'm right here with you and so it allows
the relationship to show that it's like
I'm with you and I also acknowledge that
that's yours it's not for me to take
care of I can just be here with you in
it instead of like come in and try to
fix the whole thing and then disempower
you and so both of those apologies are
really nice use them for as much as you
want but that upright apology like I
will I look forward to I can't wait to
find a place where I can apologize
because I know how transformative that
apology is for me and how healing that
apology can be but it just can't have
that shame if it has the shame it's just
going to stagnate that pattern in place
so it's always in this very upright
place where you're like taking into
account and you're being completely in
your own agency when it comes to
apologies
[Music]